thank you everybody it's really great to
have you
here so we've done a couple of these the
first two are meetups we had one in 2022
that was like really formal like sastra
annual with a lot of content we thought
we would mix it up a little bit here we
are lucky to have a SAS veteran that I
think we can all learn from Adam gross
here which we'll talk through is now the
interm Vimeo which is public at 400
million in Revenue we'll talk about how
easy that is just how easy it is to get
profitable at 400 million in Revenue so
that's pretty cool but let's welcome
Adam to saster so it was great thank you
thanks for coming good to see you so for
folks Adam is definitely OG sassin Cloud
are you saying I'm old no I'm saying I
think he started his first Cloud startup
at 12 right P what was it the first
company called personify personify that
was acquired that was on Prem that was
Prem okay that was even that's when I
learned that I this was in the 90s
that's how I learned that I didn't want
to do on Prem software from doing on PR
software because you just couldn't patch
the crappy software every night yeah
okay and then maybe I skipped a step you
were like VP of developer relations or
something at Salesforce in the good days
right that's right good days so working
with all the upand comers all the parts
of the Salesforce product you love those
are the parts that I worked on yes and
all the crappy parts I that nothing to
do with it okay OG then OG at Dropbox
like number 11 number I was going to
almost single digits number 11 the first
business guy at Dropbox yeah you're
somewhat technical in product you were
the first business guy Dropbox I was
also the first person who didn't go to
MIT ah so I but I went to part an email
and so they let me they snuck me in it
was probably still a culture Clash yeah
yeah got it now there was a story about
you a Dropbox which I don't think is
true but did you were you the first
person to build an actual desk at drop
box or bring in a salesperson or
something like that I will say that
there might have been some office
furniture controversy but controversy
carried forward in the history of
Dropbox okay so super early and then C
of Heroku I don't know any of you guys
ever used Heroku I'm sure you've used
Dropbox and others yeah so Heroku is as
fundamental to how we think about
platforms as it is right it's grown so
much right but her was like jaw-dropping
back in the day wasn't it amazing I came
in as CEO after the founders who known
Before It's actually an angel investor
in Heroku inally and they did some of
the work that they did in the size of
that team they did the equivalent of
kubernetes and what Google was doing
with buildings full of people with 10
people in a room still I I I don't
appreci I don't know that the technical
Brilliance of that original team is as
fully recognized even to this day yeah
jaw-dropping the fact that that you
actually didn't have to do all this work
which we take for granted today right
that was epic I'm probably missing a
piece from Roku and then where before
Vimeo is there a Gap I'm missing in the
esteemed resume not a gap I just was
more like you I wasn't operational I was
doing investing and board work and stuff
like that I didn't have a real have a
real job for the while so Vimeo I don't
know Adam will get up the speed I've
Vimeo has gone it's one of the ogs of
the internet it was doing the old Vimeo
was doing HD video before YouTube as a I
was watching Vimeos back in the day when
I had to watch like VGA on YouTube it's
a very different business today it's
public it's 400 million in ARR it is
going more Enterprise more sales L and
Adam is now the interim CEO was on the
board for years and now you're running
the place right that's right got it okay
so big deal so there's only so many
there's only so many public company SAS
cosos we get I don't know how often
Howard when he was running xxt is here
was in Miami but uh we Le less often
when you were running a public company a
little difference so there's only so
many 400 millionaire are public company
CEO first of all get us quickly and I
want to quickly have to speak tell us
about Vimeo today what's the company
you're running yeah the amazing thing
about Vimeo is we are turning 20 this
year so we're starting our third decade
which there's not a lot of internet
companies and a lot of brand internet
brands that have that kind of history
and that has some good and a bad with it
it means that a lot of people know who
we are but not as many people know what
we're up to more recently and we have a
wonderful and Rich history support ing
the creative and filmmaker community and
the very special relationship with that
world I recently saw a clip of a
filmmaker who was just nominated in in
his previous o Oscar acceptance speech
thanking Dio that was pretty nice it's
pretty special for your SAS product as a
thing but where Mo where our business
really is now is we're a SAS company
right we're not a social people
understand us historically as more of a
social media company but we never had
advertising and you wonder how do we
make money we make money by essentially
being a video platform in three buckets
we're the second largest video player
after YouTube we're doing about a
quarter billion impressions of the video
player a month if you want a place to
host your videos where you don't want to
give your customer information to Google
Tik Tok or meta or a really good option
for that and we think that smart markers
should be doing more of that and that
free video hosting is not as good as a
deal as it always seems to be I'm all
for putting stuff onto YouTube I Love
YouTube I use it all the time but that
broadly our view of the video business
is that it's going to swing from being
more intermediary Le to always going to
be a mix but have more company control
in that that's a big part of the
marketing pillar we have a product we
just launched last week called Vimeo
Central which is a complete suite for
using video in collaboration and
employee engagement we think we're
pretty unique in the space in kind of
the breath capabilities that we offer
there and then finally is our media
segment which is a whole separate
interesting business where we support
creators who want to do subscription
based video mod monetization where they
top out of what you can do on
Advertising rev share in YouTube and it
it's remarkable I'm not a media guy I'm
a s guy so I'm learning this along the
way but I meet with these folks all the
time and they are building hundred
million doll businesses selling
subscriptions to whatever specialty
content that they have and they largely
coming up some come out of traditional
media like Criterion Collection but a
lot of them are coming out of this
Creator world and what a lot of there's
a lot of great I wrote I've written
Vimeo up a couple times on saster
there's some pretty
investor slides but the company is going
through a phase transition right mixing
if we abstract away a little bit uh
you've got a longtail you've got a
product Le motion and a very sales Le
motion and I think today all of your
growth seems to be on the sales Leed
side that's the what you call an
Enterprise and I don't know where your
line is for Enterprise it's not a
million a year it might be 25k a year
but talk about that combination of the
longtail and sales Leed together yeah
and I'll talk it's how I ended up at
Vimeo is I've always been interested in
before we called it and among my many
views of plg is it really emanates from
the developer marketing world right the
first plg bottoms at products and really
what we think about is content or plg or
a lot of marketing modern marketing
practice for my money emanated out of
developer marketing and kind of those so
I started off in that world that led to
Dropbox style companies again similar
thing we didn't have names for like then
part of the joy for me at Boku was
really being able to tie those
businesses together take what was almost
exclusively a credit card online
business builds an Enterprise business
on top of that that by the time I left
was about went from 5% to being 50% of
the revenue and that's how why I ended
up on the Vimeo board and that's my
fundamental view of the opportunity here
I mentioned we have millions of people
interacting with our product every month
G that what are all the things that you
write about that we all struggle with
its customer acquisition it's a pain in
the ass isn't there can there be a
better way now a lot of people look at
plg and think that it's magic beans it's
not it's in some ways it's more work to
get all the pieces synchronized but if
you can pull it off a sure as damn
rewarding to be able to connect a
business that starts with that kind of
consumer style customer activity that
you can then take through all the stages
and ultim monetized for 10 20 30k or we
even have customers that spend over a
million dollars a year with us and is
the and I should know this but for the
new product in the Enterprise St there's
probably several IVs but is marketers
the real one that's buying this to put
to to manage the content yeah we have a
couple different icps which is a good
and a bad thing right we're we are
multi-product but at the same time it
adds more complexity to complex business
marketers are kicp the other one is it
cios and even as part of that a little
bit of HR we sell a lot into internal
video which is employee engagement and
it Le and that's a little little
different than the marketing use case
and how much of the long tail today can
you mine for those customers and how
much comes in as essentially a paid
conversion like how much Synergy is
there between the long tail and the plg
piece there's a lot and there's more to
do so certainly a majority of our
Enterprise business is being fed by our
selfed business I don't know if we the
majority is yes for sure now how well
are I don't think we're done with
connecting those dots and how we can
connect those dots and take that Journey
all the way from people who are free to
people who spend $130 a year with us to
people ultimately spending 100K once the
majority come from the long tail so it's
precious right majority majority come
from self- sered Self Serve self and how
do you think
about the ca of all of that how do you
think of the ca of that self-serve going
into those bigger deals are a lot of
them freeish are the self- serve freeish
or is it from digital is is it a nominal
Z CAC or how do you think what it really
cost to get these people yeah we talked
about this in our last earnings call
welome being a public company we
recently uh made a change in our
strategy to lean more into product Le so
we've spent a fair amount historically
on Advertising primarily to fuel the
more of the kind of prosumer individual
online subscription business that you
might be familiar with and one of the
strategy changes that we're making is to
say hey if we turn up the Innovation and
we turn up the actual product quality
can we be ultimately can we get around
from having to spend all this money
advertising and we work we've absolutely
started that strategy and it's certainly
something I believe is a big opportunity
for us we're spending a lot of money on
Advertising so yeah almost at the edge
of a b Toc model right in ter
advertising yeah there were parts of the
business that resembled a little more of
a consumer prosumer direct response
marketing model where the one of the
things about plg is to your point about
C what's the LTV and if you can throw
Enterprise on the end of it and you you
obviously can change the CAC Dynamics in
a material way as well it's an evolving
equation but I'm I'm a big one of the
great unique things about Vimeo there
are not a lot of companies that have
that kind of brand recognition and have
that kind of internet traffic you and I
and most of the people if not all of
these people in the room have worked in
the Sal mines of starting a company
where the only people who know what your
company's called is you and your mom you
know what I mean to actually have
something that has some brand
recognition it's an unbelievable asset I
think there's a lot that we can do there
yeah is it help with outbound with sales
getting do outbound to get sales take
the call we the door opens and we have
our own very passionate Community inside
of these organizations particularly the
film people inside of a marketing
organization if you're large enough
marketing or to have a philm team they
have some deep emotional connection with
Vimeo which is really a sight to behold
and so the question for us is how do we
translate and if you read between the
lines that what we've been doing at
least in my tenure it's okay how do we
take that how do we create products and
value propositions and messages and go
to market motions that are more
strategic so we could have a bigger
impact on those businesses and this is
part of the Playbook you've seen this I
saw this at Salesforce we have a
foothold what does that Journey look
like to fundamentally grow your average
deal size by becoming more strategic and
what kinds of problems are you solving
for your customers if the only we solve
a video hosting problem today for sure
that is an entree to solving any number
of more strategic problems and if we can
climb up that ladder all the goodness
will come from that let me ask uh a
question to transition to a topic of
efficiency which will be a fun one to
talk about yeah but when you have a
brand that people have high affinity for
like a
Vimeo especially coming in from where
you have do you make sure you don't over
monetize that how do you invest in the
positive attributes the community
because there's so much I I think part
of the tragedy of sass the last 18
months is over monetizing as things got
harder as NR came down as growth came
down there is I want to hear from you
but there was a story Rob and Sasser
there is a beloved product we all use
all the time and I among others we among
others paid $300 a month for this
product and we got a threat threatening
email at 11:00 at night saying we had to
spend pay
$50,000 for five times as much license
UPF front and if we didn't pay it by
Friday they would turn it
off now why did they do that now we
won't say who because we all love this
company one reason is they outsourced
sales okay customer success a whole
topic will run out of time but the other
thing is they came under growth pressure
and NR was down and growth was down and
now ramble story of saying it's you want
to monetize these better right but you
got to protect that special brand or it
it can Decay fast how do you load
balance those two yeah I think you know
the past couple years have been a unique
time for a whole bunch of reasons and I
think a lot of companies started missing
plan and when you start missing plan
pressure really comes down and those
kinds of business decisions start taking
precedent one of the certainly
northstars for us is being able to
maintain a little bit of a longterm P
longer term perspective and I do
genuinely think it's uh to the all of
our stakeholders benefit in the long
term but you do have to ask for little
patience and we explicitly changed our
strategy to one of the things about
moving away from Paid acquisition is
trying to move to higher quality Revenue
right and trying to move to lower short
less short-term onization we made a very
explicit strategy in the past couple
months to reemphasize and reinvest in
free right and that's another way of WR
that materialized it's and again not
peel Tre is not for everybody but if
you're going to do it free is a
component if you're trying to accelerate
people or M too aggressively for can
break them too aggressively from free
until paid and you don't have that
engagement you you're going to pay for
it on the other side and quality and
retention and those things so I do think
net it does tend to work out but yeah
it's hard to avoid those pressures this
is something I wrote up years ago who's
your VP of free then who owns free
what's their kpi yeah their kpi is
ma and in our current model and I Ma's a
good one and in our current model we we
we have kind of a squad model and this
is one of the whole things about plg
people forgive the diet Tri what makes
it so hard is it's highly cross
organizational right and most companies
we've all worked at are not good at
Cross organizational in a single go to
market mode and here you have to be good
at Cross organizational in three go to
market modes right free self- serve and
Enterprise and the degree to which an
organization get its wires grossed when
you're talking about all of those
different motions is easy and profound
they're all in Conflict so keeping every
keeping those things all in and
obviously the other thing with doing plg
versus doing Enterprises you know as I
often talk about and we remember because
we're older in the old days engineering
would create a product they put in a CD
and they throw it over a wall and
that'll be the last anybody talk to them
obviously that's not how these products
work where engagement is such a key part
of the customer Journey for us we have a
what we call a squad model I've got a VP
of growth inside of marketing and I've
got a VP a product who owns
experienceing growth inside a product
and the two of them own a squad where
they prioritize their projects together
on a quarterly basis now it's not
perfect and but it's working pretty well
for us but just because this is
interesting the the VP of growth has a
ma a monthly Ive user kpi not just
monetizing that not just converting it
but getting raw ma is one of their her
his core kpis the two of them together
they own their metrics together argue
that's good or bad and On free it is
100% Mal it's like people throw all of
this is my other random maybe helpful
tactical piece of advice the hard thing
in running these businesses is having
less metrics not more especially when
companies are really trying to Circle
what they should be focusing on there's
a tendency to get lost in the data and
think that the answer lies there it
doesn't it lies with your customers
right and our poor data team that got
pummeled with all these different
questions and I showed up and we had
pages and pages of metrics I had went
through the same exact thing in maroku
first thing I did was like
remove 80% of the metrics this is the
top line if we're not we can describe
all the businesses are nonagonal all the
metrics if you a couple simple things to
focus on that everybody can keep in
their head and align to that's much more
powerful than G I've got this physics
model that describes if this impression
happened here then that other thing will
relate to this RI over here keep it
simple keep it simple how many do you
think a department can have how many
core core metrics three to five Max you
go home tonight if you've got a
spreadsheet those rows and rows and
metrics there's a place for it there's a
place for the deeper financial and and
Metric analysis but the hard part about
these businesses is aligning right
especially in scale and honestly that's
what my job is to help the organization
align and just you can get in circles
with chasing the nth version of a metric
when you're measuring all the same thing
at the same time at the end of the day
free businesses now like they're just
measuring a different version of it if
you pick something else so keep it
simple keep what people know yeah my
simple version is five by five so the
company shouldn't have more than five
metrics and each department has five
like they have their five and any more
than that it's a yeah you're lost it's
hard to have less that's that's the the
reality all right let's at least chat
about efficiency and AI Before We R out
of time so efficiency this is something
that I think the whole world of tech is
struggling with I think for startups and
Vimeo is a scale so it's super
interesting and I'm not sure what your
Revenue per employee is but we can fig
probably figure it out in a minute right
I think for a lot of startups we were
around 80k to 100K in 2021 I don't know
what it was at brex in 2021 but times
were good in terms of Revenue per
employee in fact I don't think people
described it that way right now we're
moving to a 400k revenue per from 80 in
2021 to 400 I don't think as an industry
we've dealt with the ramifications for
what that means in terms of if that's
where we all got to get to right
everyone every public company two years
ago had minus 10 I don't know what
Vimeos was minus 12 operating margins in
18 months they went to 15 or 20 that's
not a little that's like more change in
our whole lifetimes in SAS isn't it yeah
it's profound isn't it it's profound you
can look at our results it's
we just announced for last year where
it's something like 34 million yeah and
what was it 24 months ago negative yeah
it's not simple though that's massive
change right Vio it's hard for me to
generalize because every company's
journey is unique and I do wonder about
this CU you and I lived in the era not
that long ago when I remember it sales
for is like the biggest thing you would
get in trouble for is not spending
enough because it was such a growth in a
good way mentality and the companies
were we were growing routinely 70 80% so
it was a different time obviously that's
not where industry growth numbers are
broadly we created a lot of stuff really
quickly so there was a lot to digest but
yeah it's a different era for sure yeah
I think any big changes of' all I would
say just a gross oversimplification
everyone's gotten twice as efficient so
are any fundamentally things different
at Vimeo
in this world this efficient world or
anything fundamentally different what I
generally say yes is being
really
operationally expert which is different
than efficient efficient is like some
CFOs ground you down you know what I
mean and like you switched from Zoom to
Google meet which we did that's
efficient that's different than being
are we done with that by the way all
that operational all the app layoffs
going from Zoom to Google meet to save a
few nickels are we done with that I
don't know I'll tell you this isn't
aside but one of the more interesting
experiences about my job is I'm now
major SAS buyer yeah and it is hilarious
being on the other side of the equation
it is hilarious and I think we spend too
much on SS so that's a there's a lot of
it's a remarkable we're a thousand
person organization 400 million Revenue
it is remarkable how many effing tools
we probably over a thousand across all
the or right and I am not I'm one I'm
not convinced of the value two as a CEO
it is not that hard to generate some
value I spend literally like 5 Seconds
approving
or not approving a 50k random whatever
SAS request just generate one iota of
value for the CEO so they give a little
bit like make that effort it will make a
difference anyway that's my personal
it's a good it's a good topic but the
thing that I again so not operational
efficiency as much as like operational
proficiency how good are you at an
organization at planning innovating
thinking about your business processes
and implementing them into whatever your
systems are that is the missing Keats
that is what makes the difference and
it's that skill that I especially on the
G of Market side right that and I'm a
CRM tools ner so like I I think a lot
about this stuff if I were to say to any
startup like what would you what should
you invest more in early or any company
any stage would probably be that we had
that in heru we had the world's most
amazing bizops team and we were we flew
that thing like a fighter jet like it
was unbelievable how we could innovate
on our sales emotions on how the self-
sered business related to the Enterprise
business we were able to adapt
experiment change and that made all the
difference and that was more important
than just grinding the numbers got it
okay last one let's talk about
AI let's talk about AI from a B2B
perspective from not about turning text
into a cartoon which is cool real world
fundamentally changing the workplace yes
changing products yes what are you doing
today where are we going to be at the
end of the year I you you key it up as
usual we're on the same page obviously
longterm and I'm in a video company
long-term generative AI generative video
will change the world times 10
absolutely where are we today it's much
more about content extraction Discovery
and search if in a way you can think
about what we are as a video database
company our goal is for all your video
and in your organization whether it's
marketing video internal meetings Town
Halls you name it to be in our database
which then we and this is a product we
released last week we Central does all
the content extraction does all of the
concept uh questions you can now chat
with videos right and you see there
another tools on the sales side that to
me and we're still the early days of
what's possible there in terms of how
that's going to change how businesses
operate and like some of the unlocks I
think we're at early days that to me is
really excited and occasionally scary do
you
see massive disruption in workforces
marketing departments and other
departments headcount shrinking because
of AI or do you think that's a bridge
too far I'm not connecting those dots
yet I I'm not seeing that I'm not saying
it doesn't happen I'm just not seeing
that from where we said look we're not
in the customer support business so
maybe other companies see that in
different ways I do think that we are in
the early days of
I think we're going to be surprised at
how much collaboration tools and how
much our day-to-day work experiences are
yet to shift and obviously video is the
center of that if if you look at what
happened over the past couple years none
of us would have guessed that we would
be using video so much in our day-to-day
productivity experiences and I can tell
you from what I see we're at inning one
on that not inning nine we're going to
think about zoom and hanging out in Co
times as the Blackberry era not the
iPhone ER this stuff so there's a lot
let yet to come there it's also
interesting how much of video now is
synchronous Zoom meet whatever versus as
you introduce some of this a techn AI
technology what it really does is
heighten the async side of it your
ability to consume and collaborate not
all sitting around the same Zoom meeting
I don't know that's where my nose is at
for some of the impacted cool cool all
right Adam this was great um this was
incredible thanks everybody let's give
Adam a big and bring in the best cosos
in Miami